= ey

== Install

Install engineyard like any other ruby gem:

    gem install engineyard

Note: Don't add engineyard to your application's Gemfile. The engineyard gem is not made to be a part of your application and may cause version conflicts with other parts of rails.

== Login

The first command you run will notice that you are not logged in and will ask you for your Engine Yard email and password.

== Configuration

The ey.yml file allows options to be saved for each environment to which an application is deployed. Here's an example ey.yml file in RAILS_ROOT/config/ey.yml:

    $ cat config/ey.yml
    ---
    environments:
      env_production:
        migrate: false                            # run migration command on every deploy
        migration_command: rake fancy:migrate     # default migration command
        branch: deploy                            # default branch to deploy
        default: true                             # make this environment default
        bundle_without: test development mygroup  # exclude groups on bundle install
        copy_exclude:                             # don't rsync the following dirs
        - .git
        maintenance_on_restart: false             # show maintenance page during app restart (default: false except for glassfish and mongrel)
        maintenance_on_migrate: false             # show maintenance page during migrations (default: true)
        precompile_assets: true                   # enables rails assets precompilation (default: inferred using app/assets and config/application.rb)
        asset_roles: :all                         # specify on which roles to compile assets (default: [:app, :app_master, :solo] - must be an Array)
        asset_roles:                              # (Array input for multiple roles) - Use hook deploy/before_compile_assets.rb for finer grained control.
        - :app
        - :app_master
        - :util
        ignore_database_adapter_warning: true     # hide database adapter warning if you don't use MySQL or PostgreSQL (default: false)

Many of the options in ey.yml will only work if the file is committed to your application repository. Make sure to commit this file.

== Commands

=== ey deploy

This command must be run within the current directory containing the app to be
deployed. If ey.yml specifies a default branch then the ref parameter can be
omitted. Furthermore, if a default branch is specified but a different
command is supplied the deploy will fail unless --ignore-default-branch
is used.

If ey.yml does not specify a default migrate choice, you will be prompted to
specify a migration choice. A different command can later be specified via
--migrate "ruby do_migrations.rb". Migrations can also be skipped entirely
by using --no-migrate.

Options:

  -r, [--ref=REF] [--branch=] [--tag=]      # Git ref to deploy. May be a branch, a tag, or a SHA.
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]                   # Name of the account in which the environment can be found
  -a, [--app=APP]                           # Name of the application to deploy
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]           # Environment in which to deploy this application
  -m, [--migrate=MIGRATE]                   # Run migrations via [MIGRATE], defaults to 'rake db:migrate'; use --no-migrate to avoid running migrations
  -v, [--verbose]                           # Be verbose
      [--ignore-default-branch]             # Force a deploy of the specified branch even if a default is set
      [--ignore-bad-master]                 # Force a deploy even if the master is in a bad state
      [--extra-deploy-hook-options key:val] # Additional options to be made available in deploy hooks (in the 'config' hash)
                                            # Add more keys as follows: --extra-deploy-hook-options key1:val1 key2:val2


=== ey status

Show the status of most recent deployment of the specified application and environment. This action only informational and will not change your application.

Options:

  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]                   # Name of the account in which the environment can be found
  -a, [--app=APP]                           # Name of the application containing the environment
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]           # Name of the environment with the desired deployment

=== ey environments

By default, environments for this app are displayed. The --all option will display all environments, including those for this app.

Options:

  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]                   # Name of the account in which the environment can be found
  -a, [--app=APP]                           # Name of the application containing the environments
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]           # Show only environments matching named environment
  -s, [--simple]                            # Print each environment name on its own on a new line
  -a, [--all]                               # Show all environments, not just ones associated with this application.


=== ey logs

Displays Engine Yard configuration logs for all servers in the environment. If recipes were uploaded to the environment & run, their logs will also be displayed beneath the main configuration logs.

Options:

  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment with the interesting logs
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey rebuild

Engine Yard's main configuration run occurs on all servers. Mainly used to fix failed configuration of new or existing servers, or to update servers to latest Engine Yard stack
(e.g. to apply an Engine Yard supplied security patch).

Note that uploaded recipes are also run after the main configuration run has successfully completed.

Options:

  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment to rebuild
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey rollback

Uses code from previous deploy in the "/data/APP_NAME/releases" directory on remote server(s) to restart application servers.

Options:

  -v, [--verbose]                  # Be verbose
  -a, [--app=APP]                  # Name of the application to roll back
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment in which to roll back the application
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey recipes apply

This is similar to 'ey rebuild' except Engine Yard's main configuration step is skipped.

Options:

  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment in which to apply recipes
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey recipes upload

The current directory should contain a subdirectory named "cookbooks" to be uploaded.

Options:

  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment that will receive the recipes
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found
      [--apply]                    # Apply the recipes (same as above) immediately after uploading
  -f, [--file=FILE]                # Specify a gzipped tar file (.tgz) for upload instead of cookbooks/ directory

=== ey recipes download

The recipes will be unpacked into a directory called "cookbooks" in the current directory.

If the cookbooks directory already exists, an error will be raised.

Options:

  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment for which to download the recipes
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey web enable

Remove the maintenance page for this application in the given environment.

Options:

  -v, [--verbose]                  # Be verbose
  -a, [--app=APP]                  # Name of the application whose maintenance page will be removed
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment on which to take down the maintenance page
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey web disable

The maintenance page is taken from the app currently being deployed. This means that you can customize maintenance pages to tell users the reason for downtime on every particular deploy.

Maintenance pages searched for in order of decreasing priority:
  * public/maintenance.html.custom
  * public/maintenance.html.tmp
  * public/maintenance.html
  * public/system/maintenance.html.default

Options:

  -v, [--verbose]                  # Be verbose
  -a, [--app=APP]                  # Name of the application whose maintenance page will be put up
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Environment on which to put up the maintenance page
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found


=== ey web restart

Restarts the application servers for the given application. Enables maintenance pages if it would be enabled during a normal deploy. Respects the maintenance_on_restart ey.yml configuration.

Options:

  -v, [--verbose]                  # Be verbose
  -a, [--app=APP]                  # Name of the application to restart
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Name of the environment to restart
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the app and environment can be found

=== ey ssh

If a command is supplied, it will be run, otherwise a session will be opened. The application master is used for environments with clusters. Option --all requires a command to be supplied and runs it on all servers.

Note: this command is a bit picky about its ordering. To run a command with arguments on all servers, like "rm -f /some/file", you need to order it like so:

  $ ey ssh "rm -f /some/file" -e my-environment --all

Options:

      [--utilities=one two three]  # Run command on the utility servers with the given names. If no names are given, run on all utility servers.
      [--app-servers]              # Run command on all application servers
      [--db-servers]               # Run command on the database servers
      [--db-master]                # Run command on the master database server
  -A, [--all]                      # Run command on all servers
      [--db-slaves]                # Run command on the slave database servers
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Name of the environment to ssh into
  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found

=== ey launch

Open the application in a browser.

Options:

  -c, [--account=ACCOUNT]          # Name of the account in which the environment can be found
  -a, [--app=APP]                  # Name of the application to launch
  -e, [--environment=ENVIRONMENT]  # Name of the environment for the application

=== ey whoami

Who am I logged in as? Prints the name and email of the current logged in user.

=== ey login

Log in and verify access to EY Cloud. Use logout first if you need to switch user accounts.

=== ey logout

Remove the current API key from ~/.eyrc or env variable $EYRC


== Global Options

All commands accept the following options.

  --api-token=API_TOKEN                    # Use API-TOKEN to authenticate this command
  --serverside-version=SERVERSIDE_VERSION  # Please use with care! Override deploy system version
                                           # (same as ENV variable ENGINEYARD_SERVERSIDE_VERSION)

Not all commands will make use of these options. For example,
ey status does not use, and will ignore the --serverside-version flag.

Also, please consider that it's usually not a good idea to override the
version of serverside unless you know what you're doing. CLI and serverside
versions are designed to work together and mixing them can cause errors.


== API Client

See https://github.com/engineyard/engineyard-cloud-client for the API client library.

== DEBUG

The API commands will print internal information if $DEBUG is set:

  $ DEBUG=1 ey environments --all
         GET  https://cloud.engineyard.com/api/v2/apps
      Params  {"no_instances"=>"true"}
     Headers  {"User-Agent"=>"EngineYard/2.0.0 EngineYardCloudClient/1.0.5",
              "Accept"=>"application/json",
              "X-EY-Cloud-Token"=>"YOURTOKEN"}
    Response  {"apps"=>
                [{"environments"=>[],
                  "name"=>"myapp",
                  "repository_uri"=>"git@github.com:myaccount/myapp.git",
                  "app_type_id"=>"rails3",
                  "account"=>{"name"=>"myaccount", "id"=>1234},
                  "id"=>12345}]}
